Methods of maintaining security reliably and simply when sending 
messages has been sought for as long as messages have been sent 
remotely. In this age of digital communication, email and text 
messages, this desire for privacy has been more and more 
difficult to deliver. A new type of computing brings with it the 
possibility of a perfectly secure method of transferring 
messages. Quantum computing still has a long way to go before it 
is seen commonly in homes, but the implications and possible uses 
of this step forward in computing power are already being 
employed.

1 Sending a Message

The science of cryptography involves taking a set of information, 
most commonly a message in some form, but can be any form of 
digital information, and transforming it in such a way that to 
anyone but the intended recipient, it is unreadable, and so can 
be transported safely. The aim is to make breaking the encryption 
unfeasible rather than impossible. The information is encoded using some pattern or algorithm, 
called a key or cipher, so that, when this key is passed to the 
recipient, they can reassemble the message in the original form 
and so read it.

The first type of computationally driven key was a "symmetric 
key", so called because the same key is used to both encrypt and 
decrypt the message, shown in figure [fig:Symmetric-Key]. This 
has major flaws, as simply intercepting the transport of the key 
can allow the whole message to which it protects, to be read.

Symmetric Key Cryptography - the plaintext message to be sent is 
encoded using a cipher [1]
 (the encoded message is now called 
cyphertext). The message and this key are then sent to the 
recipient separately [2]
 so the message can be read [3]
. The 
insecurity in this method comes from the transport of the key 
itself.

The most commonly used encryption method for public use now is 
using an "asymmetric key" in a technique called public key 
cryptography. This involves having two keys, one to lock the 
message and one to unlock, hence the asymmetric name. The message 
is locked using the recipient's key that is sent, and so known, 
publicly, but in such a way that it can only be unlocked again by 
the private key also owned by the recipient, shown in figure. This means that the message can reach the recipient with 
complete confidentiality, so long as the private key cannot be 
guessed or calculated from the public 


Asymmetric Key Cryptography - this time the plaintext is encoded [2]

 using the public key sent by the receiver [1]
, then sent as 
cyphertext to be decrypted with the private key which stays with 
the receiver at all times.

As technology increases, the ability to calculate the private key 
is increasing. A great deal of effort is put into developing new 
algorithms that still retain the necessary properties needed for 
an asymmetric key, but are complex enough to make breaking them 
extremely difficult. Unfortunately, with the advent of ever more 
complex keys, the computing power needed just to use the private 
key to open the message increases.

2 Brute Force

It is basically impossible to make anything entirely resistant to 
attack. In the case of cryptography, an attack is the 
interception of a message or key by any party other than the 
intended recipient. This breakdown in message security is due to 
the last resort in breaking cryptographically encoded messages 
known as a brute force attack. An application of the mathematical 
technique known as an exhaustive or brute force search. A brute 
force attack involves sequentially testing every possible 
combination of keys to break the encoding.

This is generally the last technique to be employed when breaking 
encryption as a 52 bit encryption key, such as was used for 
almost all Internet and email security up until the new standard 
was introduced in 2002, would take about 2 weeks to break on a fast computer of that 
time. As the size of the encryption key increases, i.e. the 
number of digits that would have to be guessed in order to break 
the code, the time taken to break it also increases. Since the 
time taken to break the code increases exponentially, an 
essentially unbreakable encryption system can be built simply by 
using a large enough key. This has drawbacks however. As the key 
size increases, possible errors are introduced, the transfer of 
the key itself can become dangerous and as computing power 
increases, it is theoretically only a matter of time before the 
technology will arrive that can break the code.

Another proposed method of making an unbreakable code is to make 
the message being sent smaller than the key itself, a technique 
called a "one time pad". This means that there is no way of knowing when the code has 
been broken as there will be equal probability of any sequence of 
digits being generated with each possible key attempt. For 
example if a single byte of text is encoded with a large (e.g. 
128 bit) encryption then all hexadecimal bytes from "00" to "FF" 
will be equally likely to appear for each attempt at breaking the 
code. This can be extended to larger messages by changing the key 
that is used for every section of size equal to the key size.

3 Optical Fibres

Any transmitted message must have an origin and a destination. 
Even before the issues involved in breaking into the message once 
it has been acquired are dealt with, the message must be 
intercepted between these two points so that it can be read.

Most messages that need to be protected by an encryption are 
digital messages or information. Sending these data involves, at 
some point in the journey, them travelling through a fibre optic 
cable. In conventional message transfer systems, this is the most 
vulnerable part of the journey since simple line tapping 
techniques can be used to extract information. Indeed, when in an 
optical fibre, one needs only to introduce a bend to the fibre to 
allow the information to be split in two and so extract the data. 
When any information is sent through a fibre optic cable, the 
information is encoded in bunches of photons that travel in 
distinct packets delivering their information, either a binary 
"0" or "1" for each bunch, to the recipient. As the bunches build 
up, as in figure, the message is reassembled.

Fibre optic transfer of a set of information in binary form which 
reassembles the message as information arrives at the recipient. 
The information is encoded in the polarization of the photon.

The issue with fibre optic transfer comes from the number of 
photons carried in each bunch. In order to ensure that the 
information can be reliably recreated once it has been delivered, 
coupled with the methods of creating the photons usually being 
limited to a large number each time, each bunch contains a very 
large number of photons. As the photons travel along the fibre 
optic cable, the phenomena known as total internal reflection 
means that they will be kept inside the cable, even through bends 
as demonstrated in figure [fig:total internal]. This is caused by 
the boundary between the core and the cladding material. When the 
photons are incident on this boundary with a large angle, i.e.
greater than the critical angle, they will be reflected. The 
critical angle is defined by the difference between the 
refractive indices of the two materials and their relation given 
by Snell's law in equation

 Rearranging Snell's law, gives the the angle of incidence as a 
function of the two indices and the transmission angle,

 The critical angle is defined as the angle at which no light is 
transmitted from the incident material to the transmission 
material. The lower limit of this situation is when the light is 
transmitted at an angle of to the normal, i.e.

 and. In this case, the critical angle is given 
by equation.
 

Most of the photons are maintained within the cable. However, 
some, that are incident at an angle less than the critical angle,

 (shown in figure), are lost to the 
surroundings. Each of the photon paths show an incident angle 
that increases from 1 to 5. Paths 1 to 3 show how some of the 
photons can be lost from the core. Path 4 is at the critical 
angle. The photons in path 5 are all kept within the fibre optic 
core. This effect requires the difference in refractive index.]

This works in principle, however, when the photons travel a great 
distance, or the path they take is complex, some of the photons 
will be incident at the boundary with an angle less than the 
critical angle. This will mean they are transmitted out of the 
core and lost to the surroundings. In conventional data transfer 
this is not a great issue, and is accounted for by the large 
number of photons in the bunch. It does however present a problem 
when security is important. The high number of photons means some 
can be intercepted by a potential eavesdropper to be analysed, 
without the recipient knowing the integrity of the message has 
been compromised.

4 Quantum Cryptography

The latest method to combat this sort of breakdown in security 
involves a change in the way the information is sent through the 
fibre optic cable. Using modern laser technology, single encoded 
photons can be produced at high speed on demand. This means that 
rather than having large bunches of photons, with each photon in 
a bunch carrying the same information, single photons can be 
transmitted, one after the other. Several methods of encoding the 
actual information in the photons has been tried. The first, 
performed by Bennett and Brassard in 1989, over a distance of30cm
 in air, was using the 
polarisation, for example, a clockwise polarisation would 
represent a binary "1" and anticlockwise, a "0". The downside to 
this technique, however, is that transmitting photons along an 
optical fibre instead of in air can randomise their 
polarisations. Instead, the phase of the photon is used, which 
can be measured by the receiver using a configuration of 
interferometers. Each of these methods involves encoding the 
message and sending the ciphertext through public channels, then 
using whatever technique is chosen to send the key. In quantum 
mechanical cryptography, this is known as practical quantum key 
distribution, or QKD.

The benefit of using single photons comes down to the quantum 
mechanical properties found only at the very smallest scales of 
physics. When the large number of photons in the bunches in 
classical cryptography are used, a few photons can be removed 
leaving the message largely unchanged. For the single photon 
system, this is clearly not the case as removing a photon would 
alter the message. But the advantages go deeper than this. If an 
eavesdropper attempts to clone a photon so that it remains in the 
message but they have a copy, then the laws of quantum mechanics 
become apparent. Since Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle states 
that any measurement on a system must have a corresponding effect 
on that system, the photon cannot be copied without there being 
some trace that can be observed when the message arrives at its 
destination. This means that using this technique, the message 
can be kept secret, and the presence of any eavesdropper can be 
detected.

In QKD, the one time pad method is used to increase the security, 
though this does increase the amount of information that requires 
transmitting through the optical fibre. For a complete QKD 
system, the typical bit rates for secure communications are in 
the range 10-50\unit{kbit/s}
.

As the technology to break the encryption on data increases, so 
the methods for encrypting and sending the data must progress. 
The advances in quantum cryptography represent a large jump 
forward in the security of digital media, with some suggesting 
that this offers a 100% secure method of communication. As with 
every new technology, the accuracy extent of these claims is yet 
to be substantiated, and it is inevitable that improvements will 
have to be made. In the mean while, however, every advance made 
brings us closer to the most major goal in current computing 
research, the fully operational commercial quantum computer. Will 
it live up to expectations?
